---
title: "New framework for packages"
---
For the past couple of weeks I have been working on streamlining the handling
of packages in crosstool-NG. Making all the packages handled consistently
was the primary goal, since this will facilitate further changes, such as
adding download validation, etc.

At this time, this means all packages now support building from either
released tarballs (unless a package uses rolling releases, like elf2flt);
or from a checked out copy out of vendor's repository (or really, from
any repository), or from a custom location (tarball or directory). For
version control systems, CVS/Subversion/Git/Mercurial are supported
(Mercurial support had to be added to support checking out the GMP out
of the vendor's repository).

A caveat is that many of the packages fail when built out of the vendor's
VCS: in that case, the patches distributed with crosstool-NG are not
applied. I hope that eventually more patches will find their way upstream
and most of the stuff will work in a "bleeding edge" configuration, too.

Unfortunately, I didn't find a way to make this change backward compatible
with regard to the configuration files using Kconfig. It may be possible
to write a shell script to do such conversion, but I don't want to waste
the time on that. If anyone feels like doing that, submit a PR - I'll
gladly merge it.

I am also considering two options with regard to bootstrap script and
the generated files for kconfig. I currently made all the auto-generated
files be generated from bootstrap. This takes some time, though: as
it was written in Bash (to support current requirements for Crosstool-NG
installations), it is somewhat slow - taking about a minute to generate
all the files on my machine. I can check in these files into the repository,
switching to gcc-like process (where auto-generated stuff is in the repository
and it is a responsibility of the developer to regenerate it when making
changes). Opinions welcome.

A few other caveats worth noting:

- Custom GLIBC add-ons are no longer supported. They never were fully
supported (as they would have failed to download, they had to be placed
into the saved tarballs' location manually). If this affects you, post
to the mailing list with the description of the add-on (download location,
name, etc) and I'll consider how to support it.

- Pre-generated locale support in uClibc is retired. It is currently
broken on master (and seems like noone has noticed it in at least a few
years), and this is not supported at all by uClibc-ng.

Future work:

- Make `config.sub`/`config.guess` also a package that will override
the default scripts shipped with Crosstool-NG.

- Create `autoconf-archive` and `gnulib` packages, needed to rebuild
certain components out of their version control systems (gettext,
m4, libiconv, libtool).

- Switch the build process from being step-based (i.e. "companion libs
for host") to package based (e.g. "gettext for host"). This will allow
for finer tuning of dependencies, and making cross-native toolchains
first class citizens.

Happy 4th of July, all.
